Let's talk about headings and
accessibility.
Now, in order to get your online content
in Canvas accessible, you need to designate headings
for any of your pages.
Now, this example here,
this urban gardening lesson, as I scroll through,
as a sighted person, I can pretty
easily pick up on the organization and
structure of this lesson.
I can also really easily scroll through
and find something maybe that I need
to go over a second time.
But this particular lesson
doesn't have any headings designated,
which means that if instead
I was using some sort of assistive technology,
instead of my eyes, like a screen
reader, to get to this information,
the screen reader would just plow right
through all of this information and make
it seem like it was all part
of one paragraph.
So instead, we're going to go ahead
and add some headings.
Let me click Edit, and the first thing
that I want to make sure
you know is that the page title
in Canvas is considered to be
heading one.
So when I start making edits, and you'll notice
that I've got this heading tool right here.
Right now it's set to paragraph.
If I click the down arrow,
the first heading available to me
in the page, in that Rich Content Editor
where I'm creating the page,
is heading two.
Okay. So scrolling down,
let me scroll down here a little bit.
I'm also going to give myself a little
more real estate by clicking, holding,
and dragging on that array of dots.
And then let's go ahead and scroll down
a little bit further.
So, my first heading is
this Introduction to Urban Gardening.
Again, with the font that I've got here,
it's really easy to tell that this is
like a title, but it's not
for a screen reader.
So, I'm going to go ahead
and highlight it, and then up to my heading
tool, I'm going to click the down arrow,
and I choose the highest level,
which is heading two.
Now, as soon as I change one
of these headings, Canvas gives me a
default format, but I can actually use
any format I want.
So, take a look how
this is designated heading 2.
I can make it bold.
It is still designated heading 2.
I can change the font.
Let's say I want to change it to 36.
It is still designated as heading 2.
So, you are welcome to use any kind
of formatting that you want.
My recommendation is that
you change the heading type first
and then go ahead and add the formatting
that you want.
Let's get this back and do
our other headings.
Going down to the next one,
it says, "What is urban gardening?"
Well, "What is urban gardening?"
is one of our subsections.
So, that's going to live under
Introduction to Urban Gardening.
So, you can pretty quickly tell
that our headings are setting up
like an outline,
organizing this information.
Okay. So, let me highlight this
and I'm going to again
click on that paragraph,
and I want to change this
to heading three.
So, continuing to go down,
I've got another subsection working
on this hierarchy.
Heading two, heading three,
heading four.
So, Benefits of Urban Gardening,
that one's going to be
a heading four.
So is Common Challenges.
This one is also going to be
heading four.
As I continue to scroll down,
now I am back to
the next subsection.
So, "What is urban gardening?"
If I click on it once,
that was heading three.
This one lives on the same level.
So, let me highlight this
and make this one heading three.
Now, before I show you
the next really important step,
I want you to take a look
at that accessibility checker
underneath our Rich Content Editor.
Right now, it doesn't have a number
circled next to it.
And if I click on it, it says,
"No accessibility issues were detected."
However, if I scroll through,
I've got lots of
additional headings that have not yet
been designated.
The accessibility checker, just like
the screen reader, does not know
that these are supposed to be headings.
Now, I'm going to cover
what the accessibility checker does do
in terms of headings,
but I also want to reassure you
that I've got some great
tools for you.
I've got the free
Accessibility Checklist for Canvas.
Take a look at the description
down below.
I also have a micro-course
that you can sign up for
and go through, learning all
of the things to get all
of your content accessible.
Okay, let's go back
to headings.
Now, I'm going to get out
of my accessibility checker just for a
second, and I'm actually going to mess
my hierarchy up.
So, remember up here at
Introduction to Urban Gardening,
I'll click on it once.
This was heading two,
title's heading one, and then
"What is urban gardening?" needed
to be heading three.
But what if I accidentally,
instead of heading three, made this
heading four?
Watch that accessibility checker.
It's now identified an issue,
and it's that hierarchy.
So let's click on it.
And it says, "Heading levels should
not be skipped."
Okay, let me scroll down
to the left a little bit.
It's highlighting that
"What is urban gardening?"
That was the problem.
I do not want to leave this as is.
Instead, I want to fix
that heading hierarchy.
I want to go heading two
and then heading three.
And then we click Apply.
Look for those tools and course
down in the description below.
You can learn more
about accessibility,
starting with this video.